docs(get-started): new simplified onboarding flow (#4029)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/getting-started/create-response-based-test.mdx

---
id: create-response-based-test
title: Create a Response-based Test
description: Get started by installing Tracetest! Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import GtagInstallCliTabs from '@site/src/components/GtagInstallCliTabs';

> To create a test you define a `trigger`. A trigger is an action that executes an action against your system. The most basic trigger is an HTTP requests, but we support several trigger types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a test, you define a `trigger`. A trigger is an action that executes an action against your system. The most basic trigger is an HTTP requests, but we support several trigger types.
```

1. Playwright
2. HTTP
3. GRPC
4. GraphQL
5. Kafka

:::note 
Playwright enables a useful technique: True end-to-end testing, where you start tests from the Web UI and explore the entire internal process of that request across the back end, database, and external services.
:::

You can create tests in two ways:

1. Programmatically, in YAML
2. Visually, in the Web UI

Once started, Tracetest Agent executes tests in the environment where it is running and returns the response from triggered tests. This is how you run basic response-based testing.

## Create a Test Programatically in YAML

Create a file called `ping-google.yaml`.

```yaml title="ping-google.yaml"
type: Test
spec:
  name: Ping Google
  trigger:
    type: http
    httpRequest:
      method: GET
      url: https://google.com
      headers:
      - key: Content-Type
        value: application/json
```

Run it with the CLI.

```bash title="Terminal"
tracetest run test -f ./ping-google.yaml
```

## Create a Test Visually with the Web UI

> Create a test in the Web UI by opening your Tracetest Account. Click the Create button, and select HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a test in the Web UI by opening your Tracetest Account, clicking the Create button, and selecting HTTP.
```
